Sections are the bread and butter of Zen, they act a bit like mini applications inside your website.
Typical sections are Blogs, Pages, maybe a bugtracker, etc.
Creating a section is fairly straightforward and most of the work can be done with the admin panel.

h2. Requirements

Zen core, that's all :]

h2. Installation

Quite simple actually, the sections module should ship with Zen so there's no need to manually install it.
In case the module is missing it's best to re-install Zen by executing one of the following commands:

@$ gem uninstall zen; gem install zen@

or

@$ gem update zen@

h2. License

Just like the rest of the Zen this module is released under the MIT license.
This license can be shown below and can also be found in the "LICENSE" file.

Copyright (c) 2010, Yorick Peterse

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.