# Getting Started

Once installed (see {file:installation Installation}) you can use the ``zen``
executable to create new applications. Keep in mind that this command is not a
wrapper for the ``ramaze`` executable. This means that you still have to type
``ramaze console`` or ``ramaze start`` if you want to open up a console or start
your application.

In order to create a new application based on Zen you'll need to execute the
following command:

    $ zen create NAME

NAME should be the name of your application and will be used as the name of the
directory.  If you were to specify the name "blog" a corresponding directory
would be created in the current directory.

Once an application is created you'll need to edit the default configuration
files found in the config/ directory. The most important file is "database.rb"
and contains all the required settings for connecting to a database.

The prototype applications generated by the zen command are pretty basic but
should be enough for most users. If you want to change anything of it you're
free to do so just make sure that all paths and such are updated correctly.

Once an application has been created and is configured you'll need to create the
database and insert the default user. This can be done by executing the
following commands:

    $ rake db:migrate
    $ rake db:user

This creates all the database tables and inserts a default user with a random
password.

When creating the database tables for the first time you'll see one or two
yellow warnings telling you certain tables might be missing. These can be safely
ignored.

You can now start the application using your server of choice and start using
it.

## Updating Applications

Updating Zen in general is quite easy and requires the following two commands::

    $ gem update zen
    $ rake db:migrate

However, with some releases there may be some extra steps that are required in
order to properly update your installation so it's always wise to check the
release notes before updating an installation.

When updating the database schema I always try to write my migrations in such a
way that existing data is migrated as well. However, because there may be some
cases where this isn't possible it's recommended that you **always** make a
backup of your database before updating.

## Logging In

In order to log in you must navigate to ``/admin/users/login`` or ``/admin``
(the latter will redirect you to the first URL and show a warning). If you don't
have any user accounts set up yet you should run the rake command ``rake
db:user`` as explained above. If you do have an available user account you can
log in using the user's Email address and password.
