# @title Getting Started
# Getting Started

Once installed (see {file:installation Installation}) you can use the ``zen``
executable to create new applications. Keep in mind that this command is not a
wrapper for the ``ramaze`` executable, you still have to type ``ramaze console``
or ``ramaze start`` if you want to open up a console or start your application.

In order to create a new application based on Zen you'll need to execute the
following command:

    $ zen create

This command will start an interactive installer that walks you through the
process of creating a new project. Using this installer you can specify the
project name, database settings and various other settings.

The prototype applications generated by the Zen executable are pretty basic but
should be enough for most users. If you want to change anything of it you're
free to do so just make sure that all paths and such are updated correctly.

Once an application has been created and is configured you'll need to create the
database and insert the default user. This can be done by executing the
following commands:

    $ rake db:migrate
    $ rake db:user

This creates all the database tables and inserts a default user with a random
password.

When creating the database tables for the first time you'll see one or two
yellow warnings telling you certain tables might be missing. These warnings are
triggered whenever Zen fails to automatically insert/update the settings table.
These warnings can be safely ignored the first time you create a new
application.

Once an application has been created and the database tables have been put in
place you can start using it. Starting a Zen application (during development)
can be done using the following command:

    $ ramaze start

This will start the application using WEBRick, if you want to use an alternative
server instead (such as Thin) you can do this by setting the ``-s`` option:

    $ ramaze start -s thin

For more information on the available commands and options execute ``zen
--help`` or ``ramaze --help``.

## Updating Applications

Updating Zen in general is quite easy and requires the following two commands:

    $ gem update zen
    $ rake db:migrate

However, with some releases there may be some extra steps that are required in
order to properly update your installation so it's always wise to check the
release notes before updating an installation.

While the database migrations written for Zen will always try to migrate your
existing content (unless this simply isn't possible) I **highly** recommend you
to make database backups before migrating the database.

## Logging In

In order to log in you must navigate to ``/admin/users/login`` or ``/admin``
(the latter will redirect you to the first URL and show a warning). If you don't
have any user accounts set up yet you should run the rake command ``rake
db:user`` as explained above. If you do have an available user account you can
log in using the user's Email address and password.
